KB - Save and Load the Splitter State (#643)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/splitter-save-and-load-state.md

---
title: Save and Load the Splitter State

> description: How to Save the Splitter State in the Local Storage and set it when the page is reloaded?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to save the Splitter state in Local Storage and set it when the page reloads.
```

type: how-to
page_title: Save and Load the Splitter State
slug: splitter-kb-save-and-load-state
position: 
tags: splitter, state, save, load, reload
ticketid: 1546809
res_type: kb
---

## Environment
<table>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>Product</td>
			<td>Splitter for Blazor</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

## Description

> I want to be able to save the splitter state when it is expanded or collapsed and then automatically load it when the page is reloaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I want to to save the Splitter state when it is expanded or collapsed, and then automatically load it when the page is reloaded.
```

## Solution

> This scenario can be performed in two steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement this scenario in two steps:
```

### Save the Splitter state

> You can handle the various Splitter events to save its state in the local storage whenever it is resized:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Handle the Splitter events to save its state in the LocalStorage whenever it is resized:
```

* [OnCollapse]({%slug splitter-events%}#oncollapse)
* [OnExpand]({%slug splitter-events%}#onexpand)
* [OnResize]({%slug splitter-events%}#onresize)

### Load the Splitter state

> You can then set the saved state from the local storage. It is important that this action is performed in the OnAfterRender(Async) event since typically the component references are populated then by the framework and not in OnInitialized(Async). So, if you try setting the state in OnInitialized(Async) the Splitter reference used for that purpose might still be null.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the saved state from the browser local storage. It is important to perform this action in **OnAfterRender(Async)**, as the component references are typically unavailable earlier. If you try setting the state in OnInitialized(Async), the Splitter reference may still be `null`.
```

The example below demonstrates the described approach.

````Component

> @inject LocalStorage LocalStorage

Reviewer: Isn't this a proprietary class? It is not available here.

> @inject IJSRuntime JsRuntine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@inject IJSRuntime JsRuntime
```

> @inject IJSRuntime JsRuntine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<div style="width: 500px; height: 200px;">
    <TelerikSplitter @ref="@Splitter"
                     Width="100%"
                     Height="100%"
                     OnCollapse="@SaveStateToJson"
                     OnExpand="@SaveStateToJson"
                     OnResize="@SaveStateToJson">
        <SplitterPanes>
            <SplitterPane Size="200px" Collapsible="true">
                <div>pane 0</div>
            </SplitterPane>

            <SplitterPane Size="250px" Collapsible="true">
                <div>pane 1</div>
            </SplitterPane>

            <SplitterPane Collapsible="true">
                <div>pane 2</div>
            </SplitterPane>
        </SplitterPanes>
    </TelerikSplitter>
</div>

@code {
    const string SplitterStateKey = "SplitterStorageStateKey";
    TelerikSplitter Splitter { get; set; }

    async Task SaveStateToJson()
    {
        var state = Splitter.GetState();
        await LocalStorage.SetItem(SplitterStateKey, state);
    }

    protected override async Task OnAfterRenderAsync(bool firstRender)
    {

>         var state = await LocalStorage.GetItem<SplitterState>(SplitterStateKey);
>         if (state != null)
>         {
>             Splitter.SetState(state);
>         }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        if (firstRender)
        {
            var state = await LocalStorage.GetItem<SplitterState>(SplitterStateKey);
            if (state != null)
            {
                Splitter.SetState(state);
            }
        }
```

    }
}
````

> ````Service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
````Service
using Microsoft.JSInterop;
using System.Text.Json;
using System.Threading.Tasks;

```
